# Other similar projects: 
is seems there are a lot of similar projects that have been or will be completed.
Aaro: None focusing on pedestool. I need to focus on quasilinear, no time, get grothrates for initial state and use something to try and get non linear results. 
Gyrokinetics approximation might break down for pedestool
ask David hatch what is the novel thing we should show in our proof of principle run. Next few days.

# MJ Pueschel mentioned other group using AI in database creation
Who were the other group he mentioned with the database
Aaro: group in texas, david hatch and associates, 
I found Joost
Adam: ask if Joost has pipeline for running gene at large scale. see if he has code for it. 

It is now a task to understand what has been or is being done and how I can add to this. 

# PhD?
Perhaps I should do this before applying for a PhD...? or maybe I can apply with what we have and then change it after.
Apply for PhD with what we have. 

# abstract?
Is the abstract submitted??
Maybe this should mean that I don't submit the abstract for the conference. As it will take more time to identify the best path for the research and what we will do cannot be determined right now.
Aaro: you can get funding to go america to see david hatch and come to the conference anyway. 

# DEEPlasma meetings --> GENE AI meetings
I also don't think another DEEPlasma meeting would be beneficial until all other research into the area has been identified and a research plan to contribute has been made.
Nods of agreement. 

Also MJ Pueschel has suggested monthly of bymonthly meeting with other people working in the area. We could expand out DEEPlasma group under a new name to include these other people working in the Area.

# eurofusion funding meeting
Who was in the Eurofusion Funding Group meeting, why only these people allowed to contribute to your grand master plan. Is there a slack for these people??
These people were involved in an old funding call with more money but were rejected. New funding call with less money. so were discussing what to cut from proposal. 

# Reading list organisation
Organizing a group collection of papers so we can read into each others research and batch recommend papers to each other.
Github and Quarto, agreement for reading list creation. 

Talk to them if I have Issues:
Gabriella merillao has ran gene on lumi. Tobias has also done it.

# Journal Book Club
Aaro: At weekly meetings we should all take 20 min to explain a paper