Read the paper I plan to present in the team meeting:
- I read the overview paper Joost sent me
- joosts continuation paper is pretty solid. need to read again

continue planning what to write for research proposal for PhD, good progress

run GENE on LUMI, nope

Meeting with Joe and leonardo about whole plasma surrogate
I met with Joe and leonardo,
Leonardo is trying to make machine learning to predict when materials will break. I could connect him to laurent or someone who is making a simulation for the materials. 

Joe is working to try and classify and create a scaling law for hybrid plasma. Maybe we could use Adams VAE to see what machine parameters create hybrid plasmas. q profile is important for defineing a hybrid plasma. Neo Classicle tearing modes are good for time delay but bad for stability. DIfferent instabilities have different perks. SO knowing when these instabilities come up could be beneficial for.

Astra is a framework for mishmashing models. which could be useful for training our big surrogate which models the entire plasma. This would be useful for joes, scaling law for hybrid plasma study. Hybrid plasma has a high botstrap and low current in the pedestool. q profile borad i the core and shoot up at the edge to 3.4. Also hybrid plasmas don't have sawtooth modes which is great as we tend to ignore them in model anyway. 

The pedestool is important for hyprib plasmas in that it defines the best situations for perfomance and confinement. 


Organise reading Library on zotero and folders