# PhD research Project 
## Title
Liner Gyrokinetic Surrogate Model of Tokamak Plasma Turbulence to Enable Research in Turbulence and Transport for Fusion Performance

# Abstract
The main cause for particle and energy transport losses within a Tokamak plasma is micro-turbulence. The loss of particles and energy greatly hinders fusion performance. Gyrokinetics can physically resolve micro-turbulence modes in the plasma core and accurately predict core heat and particle fluxes that lead to experimentally observed temperature and density profiles. The understanding of the turbulence at the pedestal  (H-mode plasma edge) is not as developed as the core; it is not yet clear if gyrokinetics can be experimentally validated for the pedestal. Typically when studying turbulence and transport an experimental discharge is simulated. Specific turbulence modes are identified and categorised to gain insight into the turbulent plasma behaviour that leads to experimental observables and how they affect plasma performance. Computational limitations prevent many experimental discharges from being simulated and analysed. The goal of this PhD is to generate linear gyrokinetic surrogate models that are fast enough to simulate large quantities of experimental discharges. The turbulence mode identification can be automated and anomalies can be flagged for manual investigation. Such a tool could also help determine the numerical resolution required for expensive non-linear simulations that could be used to generate saturation rules for a quasi-linear model. A quasi-linear model accepts a linear model's results as input and in principle can produce similar results to a true non-linear model. A quasi-linear model is tuned to agree with many non-linear data points. The developed linear gyrokinetic surrogate model can feed the quasi-linear model for a fast quasi-linear model. Such a model would accelerate research to understand the complex turbulent processes within the pedestal and facilitate gyrokinetic experimental validation within the pedestal (H-mode plasma edge). A tokamak flight simulator or digital twin via integrated modelling would be brought closer to reality with a validated quasi-linear gyrokinetic model of the pedestal turbulence. The pedestal turbulence model can be coupled with transport models to predict temperature and density profiles which would be useful for real-time plasma stability control and future device simulations.

When simulating an experimental discharge the uncertainty of various turbulence features is limited by the uncertainty of the experimental measurements that feed the simulations inputs. The developed surrogate model could quantify the effect of these uncertainties in a computationally efficient manner. The surrogate model can do this by repeating many simulations within the measured uncertainty bounds and observing the variation in the turbulence features.

During the development of the gyrokinetic pedestal surrogate model, many active learning and physics-informed machine learning practices will be tested and developed to reduce the amount of data needed to create a high-fidelity surrogate model. 